And then once you've got that feedback,
then you can start iterating, right,
you can start improving it and
adding stuff around it.
And it's basically, I mean,
we've all seen this kind of cycle before,
so the whole thing goes
something like this.
You start your MVP with discovering
the needs, understanding the users,
setting your value proposition,
all that kind of upfront discovery work.
Then you prototype your MVP,
which you do a bit of internal testing on.
And then you iterate on that MVP and
do some more prototyping, and maybe
the prototype moves to code and you test
a bit more, and then you iterate on it.
And maybe you do a soft launch
with a small number of people, and
you test with those and you iterate
upon it and go round and round.
Now, eventually,
you'll then launch your MVP.
Now, once you've launched your MVP,
right, then you start monitoring and
you look at how people are using it,
how people are interacting it.
And then you refine based on what
you've learned from them, of suggesting
different things you could do, which
are then implemented and then launched.
But then you monitor again,
you refine again, and
you keep going round and
round in this loop.
So essentially, you're never done
when it comes to product design.
And maybe that's another big
difference between product design and
some very informational websites
like a marketing website.
A marketing website,
you can launch and yeah, okay,
maybe update some content, etc.
But if it's mainly informational, there's
not a lot of design work to do long term.
When you get into the middle
of that line that I had, and
you get into e-commerce and
those kinds of things, then yes,
post-launch iteration becomes more
important because you can improve your
conversion rate through iterating and
improving.
Once you get to a SAS app or
a web app or product design,
then it is the heart of what you're doing.
It's the majority of what you're doing,
and
there's so much that you can iterate upon.
You can iterate upon your MVP as a whole,
but also when you launch future features,
those features themselves need
to be iterated upon, right?
And this is another thing that often
goes wrong when it comes to product
design is there is such a focus on pump
out a new feature, pump out a new feature,
pump out a new feature,
one after another after another.
And nobody's going back through
the system iterating upon those features
that have already been launched.
Cuz the chances of you getting
the perfect feature first time that works
seamlessly and everybody just gets and
understands is frankly zero, right?
There is always room for improvement about
anything that you put into the world.
Now, you've got a problem of mine.
Because, well, hang on a minute,
if we can endlessly iterate on our MVP and
we can endlessly iterate on our features,
how do we ever get new features
out into the world, right?
There's a balance to be struck there.
And this is where there's almost a little
bit of project management stuff that needs
to come into our role as
product designers, okay?
And obviously, we'll be working
with the rest of the team of this,
that we need to actually essentially
start building backlogs, right,
of work and
we need multiple backlogs, right?
So I always find if you give it a fancy
name, people are impressed, right?
So I tend to have an optimization stream
and an innovation stream cuz that
sounds cool, or does to senior managers
who love that kind of stuff, right?
So the innovation stream, that's where
you have your new features, right?
We wanna do something completely new, so
we're gonna have this stream of
work that is new features, right?
And then we have an optimization stream,
which is where we're iterating
upon existing features.
Now, how you split and deal with those
two different streams will depend on so
many factors, right?
If you're a one-man band, by yourself,
you might spend half the week
working on innovation and
half the week working on optimization.
If you're a team,
then you might wanna split the team, and
half the team works on innovation and
half works on optimization.
And then you might have separate teams
that work on this different stuff.
But the principle of having two streams,
two backlogs of work dedicated to new
things you wanna put in the world and
the stuff that you wanna
optimize is really worthwhile.
But obviously, there is another
element to this which is, well,
how do we decide what we
wanna focus on first here?
What get at the top of that, right?
Because traditionally,
the way that these streams,
these backlogs are organized
in a lot of organizations
is which is the most urgent, right?
Which comes down to, have we got
a big client that is screaming that
this has to be there, otherwise,
they're gonna abandon?
Or, well, this idea was suggested by
the CEO, so we have to do that one next,
that kind of logic, or we promised
we'd launch this by next week, so
we need to prioritize it,
all of which suck, right?
What you need is some
kind of point system,
some way of establishing
the value of related products or
jobs as they come in that decide
where they go in the backlog.
So what happens then is
as new things come in,
they don't just go to
the bottom of the list,
they get pointed up and
slotted into the appropriate place.
So there will be some features or some
things to iterate upon which never make
it to the top of the list
cuz they're rubbish, right,
because they're not
particularly worth doing.
So, fair enough,
it's survival of the fittest.
The things that matter the most wanna
get to the top of the backlog and
everything else can
languish at the bottom.
So how do you decide on this point system,
right, in order to judge that?
Well, we've kind of already covered it,
really, when we identified our MVP.
We can apply points based on user needs,
based on value proposition,
based on time and effort, it's largely
up to you how you wanna organize it.
There's no magic way of doing it.
But often, I tend to have two
user-orientated criteria and
there may be two business criteria.
So to give you an example, the business
criteria might be the goals of
the organization, what
the organization is trying to achieve.
Are they trying to achieve market growth,
are they trying to customer retention,
whatever?
And then based on those goals,
I will then rank it from one to five.
So it gets five points if it really
nails the big goals of the company,
and one point if it's, well,
it'd be nice to have, but not essential.
And then time and
effort is another one that I often use.
So with that one, it's like, really,
it's gonna be really easy to do,
then it gets five points.
If it can be really hard to do and
it gets one point, okay?
And then we might have user groups,
would be another criteria you might have.
If it's our primary audience
that we're trying to reach and
this new feature has been requested by our
primary audience, that gets five points.
If it's been requested by a secondary
audience and one that we don't really care
very much about,
then it costs one point, gets one point.
And then there's also user needs.
How important is it to those users, right?
So if users are saying, we're gonna
quit if we don't get this feature,
then that gets five points.
And if they're going, well, this would be
nice to have, then it only gets one point,
and then you can put it
in its place in the list.
Yes, question.
>> That's similar to what happens
in sprint planning, right?
>> Yes, but sometimes there is a danger.
Well, you say it's similar to
what they do in sprint planning.
There are so many different ways
that agile and sprint are done,
that it's very hard to definitively
say it's the same or not.
I've seen companies that
supposedly do sprints,
who don't do any of that whatsoever.
And I've been in other organizations that
have massively over-engineered it and
their point system is so complicated,
it takes about a week to work out whether
anything should be done or not, right?
And there's committees involved and
debates and discussions.
I'm just saying,
you need to find a simple,
clean system to prioritize
your work that works for you.
Doesn't have to be the way
I've just described it, but
avoid it being over-engineered and
avoid it being based on who shouts
the loudest and what's most urgent.
That's what I'm driving at, really.
Yes, go for it.
>> So I have a question on a lot of large
enterprises will have a data science or
business intelligence kind of
organizations within them that
are evaluating the success of
certain metrics or features.
And I wonder how designers
can collaborate within
those kind of organizations
also not stifling innovation?
Because I know database decision-making
is a very hot topic these days,
and so how can you collaborate
within larger enterprises while also
making sure that you're producing
something that is valuable and innovative?
>> That's an extremely good question
because a lot of the people,
a lot of the organizations I've worked
with have business analysts who are going
over data and that kinda thing.
I tend to switch my approach a little
bit in those kinds of scenarios,
and I shift to becoming more
the voice of the customer, right?
So I try and offset,
that data is absolutely valuable,
and I'm not in any way criticizing it,
right?
But it needs to be balanced
with qualitative data as well,
a more empathetic approach and
a more qualitative approach.
So that's where my other
course comes in really useful,
where we talked about user research, and
user testing, and those kinds of things,
with a particular emphasis on
the more things like user interviews,
usability testing, facilitated
usability testing, things like that.
So I basically will lean more
into doing that kind of work and
making sure that feeds into
the business analyst side of things.
And in a large organization,
some of the stuff that I've been talking
about here tends to happen more on
the business analyst side than it does
the product design side, and that's fine.
That's okay, if they wanna set the
roadmap, I'm entirely supportive of that.
But then it's my responsibility as
the product designer to feed into them
the additional context that
they need to know to make
an informed decision because they have
this bias towards the data over time.
Which is fine, but
it's not the whole picture.